# Project Beta Three

*Project Two Repository for Group Three, designated codename Beta Three.*

Welcome to our *Extract, Transform, Load* or *ETL* mini-project. This project is a part of the *Data Science Bootcamp* at *Rutgers University*. The purpose of this project is to demonstrate our ability to extract requested data from multiple sources, transform the data into a usable format, and load the data into a database, all part of the *ETL* process. Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

Group Members:

* Les Molinares

* Euri Mota

* Mabe Martinez

* Charles Martin

## ETL Components
This repository consists of two main components:

* **Jupyter Notebook (`ETL Chapter.ipynb`):**
This notebook includes the entirety of the data extraction and transformation process, which includes all required elements of dataframe creation, data cleansing, and file extractions. Libraries used include *Pandas*, *Numpy*, and *JSON*.

* **SQL Schema File (`Crowdfunding Schema.sql`):**
This SQL file contains the schema for the database, which includes the table structure and data types for each table. The schema was created using *Visual Code Studio* and utilized in *Postgres4*.

## Files Included
- `ETL Chapter.ipynb`: Jupyter notebook for Extraction and Transforming.
- `Crowdfunding Schema.sql`: SQL schema file for Loading database.
- `campaign.csv, category.csv, contacts.csv, subcategory.csv`: CSV files containing the extracted/cleaned data from the Jupyter notebook (contained in *Resources* directory).
- `contacts.xlsx, crowdfunding.xlsx`: Excel files containing the raw data, cleaned with the Jupyter notebook to create the .csv files (contained in *Resources* directory).

All scripts and notebooks were developed in a *Python* environment managed by *Anaconda*, with code written in *Visual Studio Code*.

Coding Soundtrack for this week was a mix of some of my personal favorites, all contained in the playlist, [Itzayana's Spider](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/09V0pHEZxInwwd7r9xesfz?si=c5578f70acc94f4a).



*-LM95A1*